title: London, Cambridge, Oxford
date: 2013-07-09 05:27:00
tags: 
- uk
- makespace
- london hackspace
- buses
- transport
- trains
- getting lost
- friends
- pubs
- beverages
---

It is true much of the journey requires travel, logistics, negotiation of new landscapes, but the wandering can feel quite good. I flew in to South London at Gatwick, made the mistake of traveling farthest from my destination, so I took a long train through london, then a connection to King's Cross station to Cambridge. A friend set me up for the night at his new flat, and in the morning I walked just a few blocks to the Cambridge PLOS office. It wasn't long in the UK until I began to take issue with the absurdity of placeness here. Every tiny street has its own name, and every little building. Often place names differ completely from address, and often addresses become complex since streets need not follow conventions like odds on one side, evens on the other. And good luck finding a street sign to know where you are. It is a comical, ironical place, but I do appreciate that for the most part, places are built to human dimensions, and confusion, more than anything, stems from history, the beaten path as it were. 

In cambridge I met some of the members of Makespace, a new hackerspace with great institutional support and a fantastic location provided through a relationship with King's College. In just a few months, the members built up quite a bit of infrastructure, providing a full toolshop including laser cutters (one in service, the other large but out of commission at the moment), 3D printer, and a store room full of all the necessary nicnacs. A clever little move was to use clear bins for member ephemera on a member shelf in the hallway--keeping things quite orderly, but transparent to get a clue onthe types of materials other members are tinkering with at the moment. The general governance of the group is odd--there are three founders who act as directors and make the necessary decisions for the space, including allocation of funds. There is some layer of trust in which members, especially those who had been around for some time, were relied upon more heavily to work things out and improve the functioning of the space. There are general discussions on the email list, and general meetings, to work out different points of view, etc. There are more than a handful systems in place to manage the space, including a sort of "training the trainer" approach that requires a designated party to train you on using specific equipment before you can take it on yourself. This is for safety, and for the preservation of the equipment. 

I had two particularly fruitfull exchanges with folks at Makespace. First, I was barely able to make it in, save posting on a meetup event that happened to be advertised for the night I was in town. The space is not open to the public generally, only for events and member-sponsored guests. this was taken to the extreme since leaving the space required a key, or breaking the glass on an emergency exit button. When my original tour guide and host had to leave, I asked to stick around to coordinate with my local friend to crash that night, and had to be "transferred" to another member to stick around. Lucky enough, they were both very welcoming, so it wasn't too much trouble. On the other hand, this is yet another case I've found of serving member needs with little infrastructure to support public access.

Second, I spoke with Rachel Raynes, artist in residence with the Raspberry Pi Foundation. She makes cool exploratory things with raspi's and represents their creative side at various events and conferences, etc. She was very supportive of a bay area [hacker-in-residence](http://ba.chgrp.org/#outsiders) idea, we agreed similar such opportunities are absolutely necessary both on the side of creative projects and on the side of funding out-of-the-box thinkers. Through our discussion I also got to hear of an on-going thread at makespace about how to provide access and membership. On the one hand, some contend the institutional model of garnering donations from organizations. On the other hand is the accrual of income from membership dues. the discussion on hand at the moment concerns rates, and level of access, depending on the ability to pay the membership fee. For instance, there seems to be sympathy for financial hardship, but on the other, not necessarily the same perspective for students or folks who would claim they are unable to contribute as much, generally. It is a [hacker pattern](http://hackerspaces.org/wiki/Design_Patterns) to offer a full and "starving hacker" rate. Of course, patterns are not rules at all, and our different approaches to this problem fit different contexts and help inform our overall strategies. Our diversity is not only a boon, but integral.

Our approach at sudo room is to both provide public access as an organizational goal, and to allow for sliding-scale contributions (or hopefully non-monetary using a fair system). This addresses two complexities:

1.  How do we approach access to resources for communities that do not have or choose to exercise the privilege to enter such spaces, especially those who would very much benefit from the community and the infrastructure itself?
2.  How do we make governance of the organization democratic, in a sense that all folks who use the space can have a serious voice in its functioning?

I think our solution is incomplete, but am very proud of the attempted approach. It is now our responsibility to improve it and accomplish the sort of diversity of perspective, and stakholdership, that we know is necessary and fruitful overall.

When I made it to London, I eventually wound up at the London Hackspace, a hackerspace in Hackney. I was surprised the pun was not pervasive, but pleased enough with various other puns in the space ;). 

First of all, this is their new location as of some time this year (I believe the spring?), and it is HUGE. If there is anyone in the UK area looking to hold some hacker event, I say lobby the London Hackspace. The entrance is in the back through a large parking lot (confusing since the whole front of the building is on Hackney street). The ground floor has a quiet room, an electronics work bench, a lounge, a recording studio, a restroom with shower, a classroom, and general hacking space. Downstairs has the biohacking space (a closet, much bigger than the former storage closet they used before--people can actually sit or stand at benches here), a woodshop, a metal shop, shelves of various materials, an open workshop area, a bicycle repair stand, and boxes of various things still unpacked from the move. 

Chatting with a few members, I came to understand the basic governance and the history of the space. They were in a much more cramped location before, and all were glad to have moved to this new location in the same general area. Things are doocratic, encouraging folks to work stuff out on their own, and to organize together to get things they want and see things change as needed. There is a board of elected folks, with a pattern to change 3 members every year, totalling 9, and cycling at a rate of 3 years--though there is no hard and fast rule not to be re-elected for many terms anyway. This group makes financial decisions, signs necessary contracts, and resolves disputes. When they had more money in the small space, they would allocate funds to tools and projects, but now they are strapped with rent for their grand space and encourage members to find interest amongst some others, and pool some money together to buy whatever it is they need. Often things are donated, or found cheaply, so this is not too bad. 

Over the weekend in London, I went to two hackathons, especially to meet up with [Daniel Mietchen](http://twitter.com/evo_mri) to collaborate on extending a Commons media importer to upload [Open Access videos to Youtube](http://github.com/wrought/open-access-media-importer). We got a lot of work in, and started a few other good threads, but the project is not yet finished ;). The first event was [#hack4ac](http://hack4ac.com/), where participants tried to demonstrate the power and utility of the [CC-BY license](http://creativecommons.org). The next was a medical-themed event put on by BMJ at the Hub Westminster. I was very pleased with the venue, and am considering using it in the future for other events. The projects were very excellent at both events, my personal favorite the [OA Button](http://twitter.com/oa_button).

Before leaving, I dipped my toe in Oxford, dropping in on some Digital Humanities workshops. It was intresting to see various perspectives on digital culture and opportunities from this group. One attendee quite eloquently shared, "The only future for humanities is digital." There is no alternative, there are many questions and much uncertainty, but the future for the humanities will not remain in analog formats. I also got a chance to talk to a PhD student who researches "Questionnaires," surprisingly old documents, especially used by enlightenment philosophers and public intellectuals to find out about things beyond their knowledge, such as life in the "New World." It was a rather perplexing exchange. This researcher found a series of unpublished questionnaires. There is such a great opportunity for her to reach out and find swaths of similar documents, and connect to peer researchers. However, the fixation of mining out this academic gold of unpublished source work outweighs the opportunity to collaborate in the open. This is the precise challenge of humanities work. How does one overcome incentives as strong as career fodder? Ultimately, I left my suggestion on the table&mdash;publish the original scans, and the first transcriptions on a Github repository, seek out other researchers, contributors, transcribers, and source documents, then add them to the collection. This would be a fantstic exampe of networked research, publishable in its own right IMHO. This seems unlikely to happen now, oh well. 